# bike_signs_detection

## Installation

1. Create a conda enviroment with python 3.6.5 and activate it. \
`conda create --name sign_det python=3.6.5` \
`conda activate sign_det`

1. Install tensorflow 1.13.1 and tensorflow-gpu 1.13.1. It is crucial to install it both with pip and conda. \
`pip install tensorflow==1.13.1 --upgrade` \
`conda install tensorflow==1.13.1` \
`pip install tensorflow-gpu==1.13.1 --upgrade` \
`conda install tensorflow-gpu==1.13.1`

1. Install keras-retinanet 0.5.1.
   * Clone [keras-retinanet](https://github.com/fizyr/keras-retinanet) repository.  \
   `git clone https://github.com/fizyr/keras-retinanet.git`

   * Move to the keras-retinanet folder. \
   `cd keras-retinanet`

   * Create a branch from 0.5.1 and switch to it. \
   `git checkout -b branch0.5.1 0.5.1`

   * Install it. \
   `pip install . --upgrade`

1. Install keras-maskrcnn 0.2.2.
   * Clone [keras-maskrcnn](https://github.com/fizyr/keras-maskrcnn) repository. \
   `git clone https://github.com/fizyr/keras-maskrcnn.git`

   * Move to the keras-maskrcnn folder. \
   `cd keras-maskrcnn`

   * Create a branch from 0.2.2 and switch to it. \
   `git checkout -b branch0.2.2 0.2.2`

   * Install it. \
   `pip install . --upgrade`

1. Install keras 2.2.5. \
`pip install keras==2.2.5 --upgrade`

1. Install matplotlib with dependencies. \
`pip install matplotlib --upgrade`\
`conda install matplotlib`

1. Install exiftool. \
`sudo apt-get install exiftool`

1. Make sure that you have installed and you use [git lfs](https://git-lfs.github.com/). Without this you will not be able to download the resnet model in the next step. (You can avoid this step by downloading the resnet model separately.)

1. Clone this repository. \
`git clone https://github.com/Jozko55/bike_signs_detection.git`


## Usage

Firstly, create a folder where both input pictures and outputs will be stored. The folder must contain two separate folders named `inputs` and `outputs`. The subfolder `inputs` should contain your input pictures. The subfolder `outputs` should be empty.

Now, adjust accordingly the variable `path_to_data` in the file `script.sh`. (By default it is the path to `sample_data`.)

Finally, run everything. \
`./script.sh`

## Results

There will be exactly 4 output files generated for every detected bike sign on an input picture.

* `_mask.JPG`
* `_box.JPG`
* `_exif.json` (generated by exiftool from original picture)
* `_info.json` (name of detected sign and given score)



